This week, we talked about
a whole new way to do control,
directly learning
parameterized policies.
We introduce a new objective and
a new algorithmic framework
called actor-critic.
Let's take a step back
and look at where
this new material fits
into the bigger picture.
We learn policies using
function approximation so we're
still on the left side
of the map.
We focus on actor-critic using
the average reward objective
so that puts us here,
from there we introduced
two possible parameterizations
depending on whether the actions
are continuous or discrete.
For discrete actions, we use
the softmax policy
parameterization.
For continuous action spaces,
we use a Gaussian policy which
samples actions from
a continuous range.
This is the first
time we implemented
an algorithm for
continuous actions.
Average reward actor-critic can
be used in the same settings as
the differential semi
gradient SARSA algorithm
we introduced previously.
We started this week by
making the shift from
parameterize action values
to parameterize policies.
Parameterized policies
taken state action pairs
and output the associated
action probabilities.
This function is parameterized by
a vector of parameters
denoted by Theta.
A parameterized policy has to
be a valid probability
distribution.
That is, every action probability
must be greater than zero,
and the sum over all actions in
a given state must be one.
A softmax over action
preferences is one way to ensure
the parameterized policy obeys
these constraints in
discrete action spaces.
Parameterizing
policies directly has
a number of potential advantages.
These advantages
include the ability
to autonomously converge to
a deterministic policy
over time while
using a stochastic policy
to explore early on.
Another advantage is the ability
to learn stochastic policies.
This can be useful with
function approximation,
when the optimal
deterministic policy
is not representable.
Finally, we discussed that
a good policy might be easier
to learn and represent than
precise action values.
To learn parameterized policies,
we had to consider
a new objective
and a new strategy
to optimize it.
We revisited the average
reward objective.
We showed that the average reward
can be expanded out like this.
Our strategy to optimize
this objective was to use
stochastic gradient descent.
For that, we needed
an estimate of the gradient
of the average reward.
This is challenging because
the state distribution Mu
depends on the policy parameters.
The policy gradient theorem
provides an expression
for the gradient of
the average reward objective
that's convenient to optimize.
This form allows us to
estimate the gradient by
sampling states from Mu by
following the policy, Pi.
Using the policy
gradient theorem,
we derive the
actor-critic algorithm.
Actor-critic simultaneously
learns a parameterized policy,
the actor, and an estimate of
the policies value
function, the critic.
The Theta air from
the critic reflects that
the actor did better or worse
than the critic expected.
The actor is trained
to favor actions
that exceed the
critic's expectations,
the critic is trained to improve
its value estimates of the actor
so that it knows what value it
should expect for this actor.
We demonstrated how
the actor-critic algorithm
can be used for
both discrete and
continuous action spaces.
For discrete actions, we used
a softmax policy
parameterization.
For continuous actions, we used
a Gaussian policy with state
dependent mean and variance.
This made the
Gaussian policy over
actions conditional on the state.
Now you know how to parameterize
and learn policies directly.
In addition to
the action value methods
we looked at before,
this is a valuable new tool in
your reinforcement
learning toolbox.